# verdaccio-offline-storage

📦 [local-storage](https://github.com/verdaccio/monorepo/tree/master/plugins/local-storage) plugin
**BUT** with locally available packages as first class citizens. 

> **tl;dr:** Makes Verdaccio's package cache actually work when going offline. 

This storage plugin provides only the packages versions stored in a `local-storage` storage. This
means that if you are in an offline environment (no access to `registry.npmjs.org` or any other 
[uplink](https://verdaccio.org/docs/en/uplinks)) you:

- won't get errors because of missing packages versions if you installed them before (when online).
  This is kind of solved thanks to the lock files generated by `yarn` and other package managers,
  but could be an issue if you don't have the lock files (like when using an old version of `npm`).
- will be able to safely install modules using the `@latest` version, which will be the latest
  locally available. This is a major issue for offline environments since many packages uses in
  their dependencies version [ranges](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/semver#advanced-range-syntax),
  and the _best_ matching version to install might not be locally available. However, the version
  [ranges](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/semver#advanced-range-syntax) could be satisfiable with the
  locally available versions (actually, **they are**: they were when installed in an online
  environment).


## Features

- [local-storage](https://github.com/verdaccio/monorepo/tree/master/plugins/local-storage)
  compatible, meaning you can use the default storage without breaking it.
- No lockfile required to install _again_ the same modules, meaning all the dependencies will be
  resolved _again_ if they were cached in the past. If the registry worked when online, then it must
  work later when offline for **the same dependencies requirements**.
- `yarn add` or `npm install` **just works**! No more errors due to missing versions.
- Lists all the locally available packages on the web UI. Yes, all of them, not only the uploaded
  ones.
- Default [local-storage](https://github.com/verdaccio/monorepo/tree/master/plugins/local-storage)
  behavior when online (see [usage](#usage) section below), **but** resolving locally all packages
  with no [proxy](https://verdaccio.org/docs/en/packages#blocking-proxying-a-set-of-specific-packages)
  defined.

  
## Usage

First off, install the plugin:

```bash
yarn global add verdaccio-offline-storage

# npm -g i verdaccio-offline-storage
```

Then edit the `config.yaml` with the following:

```yaml
# The plugin will use the `storage` field just like the default `local-storage` plugin does
storage: /path/to/the/storage/cache/directory/

# Add this and Verdaccio will load the plugin 
store:
  offline-storage:

# Now on, every package with no `proxy` defined will be resolved locally!

# Optionally, if you want to resolve locally EVERY package (like in the v1 version of this plugin)
# just add this to the config:
offline: true
```

And voilá, enjoy your working offline environment.

---

## Development

First, install all deps:

```bash
yarn
```

Then use the following npm tasks.

  - `yarn build`

    Builds the distributable archives in the `/lib` directory.

  - `yarn lint`

    Lints the code

For more information about any of these commands run `npm run ${task} -- --help`.
